README.md, before:


![chapalogo](https://github.com/yohanneskemer/Chapa4iOS/assets/99908888/b84c770e-5dfa-411b-b2a6-33a29fcb5af9)

# Chapa4iOS (Unofficial)
##### An iOS SDK for projects with Swift Programming Language
###### Accessible over Swift Package Manager

Inspired by the works of [YohannesTz](https://github.com/YohannesTz/ChapaKt) and [Chapi](https://github.com/Chapa-Et/chapa-django), Chapa4iOS is the **unofficial** iOS SDK for Chapa. 
This is done according to [the official documentation](https://developer.chapa.co) provided by the internal team of [Chapa](https://chapa.co).

### Features
- Generate Transaction Reference (Util)
- Accept Payment
- Verify Payment

### Remark
We have dealt with the *snake_case* variable names of JSON by mapping them into *camelCase* representations to make the models prepared comforming to Codable protocol.

## Installation
Chapa4iOS can be installed with the Swift Package Manager (SPM):
(https://github.com/yohannescodes/Chapa4iOS/)

## Getting Started
Once the installation process is done, we can import the SDK in the file we want to use it in.

### Configuration

```swift
import Chapa4iOS

var chapa: Chapa!

override func viewDidLoad(){
  chapa = Chapa(secretKey: "**YOUR SECRET KEY FROM CHAPA DASHBOARD**")
}
```


## Generate Transaction Reference
This utility method of Chapa instance allows you to generating a customizable random alpha numberic transaction reference.


```swift 
let transactionReference = chapa.generateTransactionReference()
```


## Accept Payment
Here we can initialize transaction by providing customer information and requesting for a checkout URL to load for our users.


```swift
let customer = Customer(amount: "100", currency: .etb, email: nil, firstName: "Yohannes", lastName: "Haile", phoneNumber: "0922106876", txRef: transactionReference, callbackURL: nil, returnURL: nil, customization: nil)

//Enter the instance of your View Controller when you call the following method so it can instantiate Web View for the Checkout page it retrieves from the response.
chapa.acceptPayment(controller: self, customer: customer)
```  

### Data Types of Optional Properties:

- email: String?
- firstName: String?
- lastName: String?
- phoneNumber: String?
- callbackURL: String?
- returnURL: String? (HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TO PROVIDE THIS FIELD)
- customization: ChapaCustomization?

### What can you customize?

You can customize the checkout page for your users by providing:
- title
- description

## Verify Payment
To verify payment, simply call the verify method from Chapa instance.


```swift
chapa.verifyPayment(controller: self, txRef: transactionReference)
```
### Remark
Successfully presenting the checkout page doesn’t necessarily mean your customer has finalized their payment. You need to verify the transaction by providing the transaction reference you generated before initializing Customer object.

Commit message:

Update documentation for transaction verification

README.md, after:


![chapalogo](https://github.com/yohanneskemer/Chapa4iOS/assets/99908888/b84c770e-5dfa-411b-b2a6-33a29fcb5af9)

# Chapa4iOS (Unofficial)
##### An iOS SDK for projects with Swift Programming Language
###### Accessible over Swift Package Manager

Inspired by the works of [YohannesTz](https://github.com/YohannesTz/ChapaKt) and [Chapi](https://github.com/Chapa-Et/chapa-django), Chapa4iOS is the **unofficial** iOS SDK for Chapa. 
This is done according to [the official documentation](https://developer.chapa.co) provided by the internal team of [Chapa](https://chapa.co).

### Features
- Generate Transaction Reference (Util)
- Accept Payment
- Verify Payment

### Remark
We have dealt with the *snake_case* variable names of JSON by mapping them into *camelCase* representations to make the models prepared comforming to Codable protocol.

## Installation
Chapa4iOS can be installed with the Swift Package Manager (SPM):
(https://github.com/yohannescodes/Chapa4iOS/)

## Getting Started
Once the installation process is done, we can import the SDK in the file we want to use it in.

### Configuration

```swift
import Chapa4iOS

var chapa: Chapa!

override func viewDidLoad(){
  chapa = Chapa(secretKey: "**YOUR SECRET KEY FROM CHAPA DASHBOARD**")
}
```


## Generate Transaction Reference
This utility method of Chapa instance allows you to generating a customizable random alpha numberic transaction reference.


```swift 
let transactionReference = chapa.generateTransactionReference()
```


## Accept Payment
Here we can initialize transaction by providing customer information and requesting for a checkout URL to load for our users.


```swift
let customer = Customer(amount: "100", currency: .etb, email: nil, firstName: "Yohannes", lastName: "Haile", phoneNumber: "0922106876", txRef: transactionReference, callbackURL: nil, returnURL: nil, customization: nil)

//Enter the instance of your View Controller when you call the following method so it can instantiate Web View for the Checkout page it retrieves from the response.
chapa.acceptPayment(controller: self, customer: customer)
```  

### Data Types of Optional Properties:

- email: String?
- firstName: String?
- lastName: String?
- phoneNumber: String?
- callbackURL: String?
- returnURL: String? (HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TO PROVIDE THIS FIELD)
- customization: ChapaCustomization?

### What can you customize?

You can customize the checkout page for your users by providing:
- title
- description

## Verify Payment
Verifying transactions is automated starting from Chapa4iOS v0.0.2.

### Thank you for working with Chapa4iOS 🧡
